# Heart_Disease__Diagnosis_Using_ML: In this Project I am going to find the accuracy of having heart disease using Machine Learning models.
# Project Title: Prediction of Heart Disease Using Machining Learning
# Project Descricption: This project is all about finding the accuracy of having heart disease. There are many factors which cause heart disease such as presence of colesterol, blood pressure, presence of glucose, age, weight, alcohol consumption, smoking habits etc. Maching learning models can able to predict the heart disese with more accuracy than doctors.                                                                               1)Data from Kaggle website is used. The dataset consists of 13 features with target value as 'cardio'.                                                                            2)We divided the dataset into train and test(75%-25%).                                      3)Four machine learning models are used to train the data. Decision tree classifier, Random forest classifier, XGBoosting classifier and Logistic regression.                            4)For evaluation method we are used confusion matrix.
# Prerequisites:                                                                   1)Install Jupyter notebook or use Google Colab for easy python programming.                  2)Packages: import numpy as np import pandas as pd import matplotlib.pyplot as plt import seaborn as sns from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split from sklearn.svm import SVC from sklearn.metrics import confusion_matrix from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeClassifier from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression from sklearn.tree import export_graphviz from sklearn.externals.six import StringIO from IPython.display import Image #from pydot import graph_from_dot_data from sklearn import metrics import warnings warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')
# Steps to run the codes:                                                             1)Data Exploration                                                                  2)Decision Tree Classifier                                                         3)Optimaizing Decision Tree                                                          4)Random Forest Classifier                                                      5)XGBoosting Classifier                                                        6)Optimaizing XGBoosting                                                          7)Logistic Regression                                                          8)Optimaizing Logistic Regression
# Explaining Each Code:                                                               1)Data Exploration:                                                                 Download the dataset from the link:https://www.kaggle.com/sulianova/cardiovascular-disease-dataset .                                                                             Import file in the google colab notebook.                                                    Check the null values, if any value is not numeric then make it as zero-numeric.            Find the number of people with heart problem and without heart problem according to different age groups.                                                                    Find the correlation matrix and then the heatmap.                                       Split the data into train and test(75%-25%).                                                Pre-processing the data using standard scaler.                                    1)Decision Tree Classifier:                                                                  Split the data into training and testing. For the train and test data the 'cardio' has been removed.                                                                                    There will be 4 datatsets now. X_train, y_train, X_test,y_test. Dataset with X will have all features and dataset y will have cardio column only.                                    Decision Tree is used to fit the model for X_train and y_train.Then prediction is done for X_test using predict. Then the results of predicted value and y_test are compared.Find the confusion matrix and then find different metric. We calculated accuracy,precision, recall,F1 score.                                                             2)Optimaization of Decision Tree:                                                        Using Grid Search we tried to improve the accurcy of the model. We got cross_val_score which is better than the previous accuracy.                                                  3)Random Forest Classifier:                                                                  Split the data into training and testing. For the train and test data the 'cardio' has been removed.                                                                                    There will be 4 datatsets now. X_train, y_train, X_test,y_test. Dataset with X will have all features and dataset y will have cardio column only.                                   Random Forest is used to fit the model for X_train and y_train.      Then prediction is done for X_test using predict. Then the results of predicted value and y_test are compared.  Confusion matrix is plotted using the fuction.                                              Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1 score of model is shown using the in-built function .   4)XGBoosting Classifier:                                                                    Split the data into training and testing. For the train and test data the 'cardio' has been removed.                                                                                    There will be 4 datatsets now. X_train, y_train, X_test,y_test. Dataset with X will have all features and dataset y will have 'cardio' column only.                                  XGBoosting is used to fit the model for X_train and y_train.                                                     Then find the model score using X_test and y_test.                    5)Improving XGBoosting: Using Grid Search we tried to improve the result.                    6)Logistic Regression:Split the data into training and testing. For the train and test data the 'cardio' has been removed.                                                                                    There will be 4 datatsets now. X_train, y_train, X_test,y_test. Dataset with X will have all features and dataset y will have cardio column only.                                Logistic Regression is used to fit the model for X_train and y_train.      Then prediction is done for X_test using predict. Then the results of predicted value and y_test are compared.  Confusion matrix is plotted using the fuction.Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1 score of model is shown using the in-built function .              7)Improving Logistic Regression: The data is standadised to [0,1] range and again trained anf tested the model. 
